Update build instructions related to Linux and overall builds (#182)
thunderbird/developer-docs: thunderbird-development/building-thunderbird/linux-build-prerequisites.md

  environment set up and ready to hack on Thunderbird.
---

# Hardware Requirements

## 64-bit version

You will need to be running a 64-bit version of Linux in order to build Thunderbird. You can check which version you're running by typing this command in your terminal:

```
uname -m
```

if this command returns `x86_64` you can proceed.

## 30 GB of free space

> The Thunderbird build will take up to 30 GB of disk space in order to complete. Be sure to have enough free space and a fast internet connection to avoid interruptions.

Reviewer: nit: It's not technically required to have an internet connection to build. The build itself is intended to work without going out to the internet at all. However, the default when building from mozilla/comm-central is that `--enable-bootstrap` is set so that the toolchains download automatically.

Not a big deal, but the broad statement of requiring an internet connection may ruffle feathers.

Author: great point. I'll add a hint with this info. Where is the `--enable-bootstrap` set so I can tell people without internet where to go and remove this?

  environment set up and ready to hack on Thunderbird.
---

# Hardware Requirements

## 64-bit version

You will need to be running a 64-bit version of Linux in order to build Thunderbird. You can check which version you're running by typing this command in your terminal:

```
uname -m
```

if this command returns `x86_64` you can proceed.

## 30 GB of free space

> The Thunderbird build can use 30-40GB of disk space to complete depending on your operating system.

Reviewer 2: Should we repeat this in every build page or just leave it in the first starting page?

Author: Well I had initially left it only on the first starting page, under the hardware requirements. But then it seemed to small to draw attention. If you think it's too redundant to have in each page I can remove it, however I bet people will not really *see* it.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, we can keep it

{% hint style="warning" %}

> Note that while it's not technically required to have an internet connection to build, the default when building from `mozilla/comm-central` is that `--enable-bootstrap` is set so that the toolchains download automatically. If you do not have an active internet connection then 

Reviewer 2: This sentence doesn't read very well, and it also looks incomplete.

Author: Fixed

{% endhint %}

# Build Environment

## Python

You’ll need `Python 3.8` or later installed.

You can check with `python3 --version` to see if you have it already. If not, you can install it with your distribution’s package manager. Make sure your system is up to date!

You will also need `python3-distutils` and `python3-pip` installed from your distribution's package manager.

## Mercurial

> As noted in the [Getting Started page](../getting-started#mercurial-version-control), both `mozilla-central` and `comm-central` are version controlled with Mercurial. This means you will need to install Mercurial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As noted in the [Getting Started page](../getting-started#mercurial-version-control), both `mozilla-central` and `comm-central` are repositories using the Mercurial version control system. This means you will need to install Mercurial.
```

Here are the quick commands to use for common Linux based operating systems but for a more complete list of instructions (if neither of these works for your use case), please see [Mercurial's download page on their wiki](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/wiki/Download).

### Ubuntu/Debian
```
sudo apt install mercurial
```

### Fedora
```
sudo dnf install mercurial
```

# Getting the Code

Once you have Mercurial installed, you are ready to grab the source code. There are a couple of different methods to do this.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Mozilla-central will build Firefox without the comm-central repo present and a few options set. Mozilla-central is the Firefox codebase and comm-central features the additions that turn Firefox into Thunderbird.
{% endhint %}

## Scripted

> We have created and host a script that will grab the two source repos you need, run `./mach bootstrap` for you, and sets up a necessary `mozconfig` file. This script is called [`bootstrap.py`](https://hg.mozilla.org/comm-central/raw-file/tip/python/rocboot/bin/bootstrap.py). Download this file to the directory where you would like your source code folder to live, either by clicking the link and moving the file to the appropriate location or using `wget`. Then we will make it executable and run it.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this change?
We're switching from "(You) download this file and move it" to "We will make it...".

```suggestion
We have created and host a script that will grab the two source repos you need, run `./mach bootstrap` for you, and sets up a necessary `mozconfig` file. This script is called [`bootstrap.py`](https://hg.mozilla.org/comm-central/raw-file/tip/python/rocboot/bin/bootstrap.py). Download this file to the directory where you would like your source code folder to live, either by clicking the link and moving the file to the appropriate location or using `wget`. Then make it executable and run it.
```

Please choose option 2 to proceed with a successful build.

This action should install all the remaining libraries and dependencies necessary to build Thunderbird locally.

### Create `mozconfig` file

> This step will need to be performed if you manually checked out the code and performed the bootstrap, and it will covered in the next section you follow, [Building Thunderbire](./#build-configuration).

Reviewer 2: This section should be before the "Mach Bootstrap" section otherwise users will build Firefox.

Author: you're absolutely right.
